docs/url-parsing.md, before:

# URL parsing integration

## Retrieving the contextual values from the url

Any time when the Outreach loads an application, it will set as iframe source an URL created out of:

- host.URL value [defined in the manifest](manifest.md#url)
- query parameters representing [context values of current Outreach user](manifest.md#context) also defined in the manifest (e.g. "opp.id")
- [config parameters](configuration.md) (if any) which have [urlInclude](configuration.md##urlinclude) property enabled.
- query params which are always sent regardless of the manifest:
  - locale='en',
  - theme='light'
  - uid={usr.id}

That's how the resulting URL which Outreach will set as a source of iframe will be something like this:

```http
    https://addon-host.com/something?locale=en&uid=a1234&opp.id=123456
```

When the application loading request comes, the application has to parse out of request query parameter values and, based on them to return some of the next responses as described in [url parsing section](url-parsing.md)

## Timeout handling

As mentioned in [hosting requirements](host-requirements.md#timeouts), the Outreach application will show an error screen if the application doesn't respond in 10 seconds with a READY message.

![alt text](assets/timeout-error.png "Timeout error screen")

A lot of the applications are implemented based on manual URL parsing. In that case, they don't reference the SDK, and thus the READY message event is not sent, which leads to an error screen even if the application is working fine.

There are two recommended solutions to tackle this if the application code can be modified:

1. reference the SDK and await sdk.init(), which will send a READY message without referencing the SDK,
2. manually send the event by implementing this code

```javascript
const addonHostOrigin = ‘https://app-hosting-domain.com;
window.parent.postMessage({type: ‘cxt:sdk:ready’, version: 2}, addonHostOrigin)
```

When the recommended solutions are not possible, the application creator can update the manifest with information that the application is "not using the SDK" and that the Outreach host will disable the timeout check. With this solution, the Outreach host will not have any information on application QoS, and it would have to be approved as an exception during the application review process.

```javascript
{
  ...
  disableTimeoutMonitoring: true
  ...
} 
```

Commit message:

#ore-190 QoS telemetry without sdk

docs/url-parsing.md, after:

# URL parsing integration

## Retrieving the contextual values from the url

Any time when the Outreach loads an application, it will set as iframe source an URL created out of:

- host.URL value [defined in the manifest](manifest.md#url)
- query parameters representing [context values of current Outreach user](manifest.md#context) also defined in the manifest (e.g. "opp.id")
- [config parameters](configuration.md) (if any) which have [urlInclude](configuration.md##urlinclude) property enabled.
- query params which are always sent regardless of the manifest:
  - locale='en',
  - theme='light'
  - uid={usr.id}

That's how the resulting URL which Outreach will set as a source of iframe will be something like this:

```http
    https://addon-host.com/something?locale=en&uid=a1234&opp.id=123456
```

When the application loading request comes, the application has to parse out of request query parameter values and, based on them to return some of the next responses as described in [url parsing section](url-parsing.md)

## Timeout handling

As mentioned in [hosting requirements](host-requirements.md#timeouts), the Outreach application will show an error screen if the application doesn't respond in 10 seconds with a READY message.

![alt text](assets/timeout-error.png "Timeout error screen")

A lot of the applications are implemented based on manual URL parsing. In that case, they don't reference the SDK, and thus the READY message event is not sent, which leads to an error screen even if the application is working fine.

There are two recommended solutions to tackle this if the application code can be modified:

1. reference the SDK and await sdk.init(), which will send a READY message without referencing the SDK,
2. manually send the event by implementing this code

```javascript
const addonHostOrigin = ‘https://app-hosting-domain.com;
window.parent.postMessage({type: ‘cxt:sdk:ready’, version: 2}, addonHostOrigin)
```

Suppose the Outreach application creator would implement one of the above-recommended solutions. In that case, the Outreach host app will have to make an additional request to the addon hosting endpoint.
This request will have query parameter **?ping=true**, and the Outreach application hosting endpoint should return an empty OK  response (status code: 200) without any processing.
The addon endpoint should NOT return the 404 status code on a ping request - the app review process will check this.
